Add script to import snapshots from `git` to `MongoDB` (#739)
ambanum/OpenTermsArchive: scripts/import/README.md

# Import snapshots

Import snapshots history from git to MongoDB.

The script works by reading snapshots commits from a source repository and insert them in a MongoDB database.

### Configuring

You can change the configuration in `config/import.json`.

```json
{
  "import": {
    "sourcePath": "Path of the source repository",
    "githubRepository": "GitHub repository identifier. Should respect the format: <organisation_or_user_name>/<repository_name>",
    "mongo": {

>       "connectionURI": "URI for defining connection to the MongoDB instance. See https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/",

Author: I just copy and paste the doc from our global config in the readme. I'm in favor of keeping the same description for both. I change both with your proposal?

>       "connectionURI": "URI for defining connection to the MongoDB instance. See https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/",

Reviewer: While “target” makes sense in the context of an import (or “destination”), I don't think it makes a lot of sense in the context of the general README. If we change this here, I don't think we should change the version in the README.

# Import snapshots

Import snapshots history from git to MongoDB.

> The script works by reading snapshots commits from a source repository and insert them in a MongoDB database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script works by reading snapshots commits from a source repository and inserting them in a MongoDB database.
```

> The script works by reading snapshots commits from a source repository and insert them in a MongoDB database.

Reviewer: Does it really? Or  does it read the contents from GitHub and will fail if the repository is not hosted publicly on GitHub?

### Configuring

You can change the configuration in `config/import.json`.

```json
{
  "import": {

>     "sourcePath": "Path of the source repository",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "sourcePath": "Path to the source repository",
```

    "githubRepository": "Snapshots GitHub repository identifier. Should respect the format: <organisation_or_user_name>/<repository_name>",
    "mongo": {
      "connectionURI": "URI for defining connection to the MongoDB instance. See https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/",
      "database": "Database name",
      "collection": "Collection name"
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Adding renaming rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Renaming rules
```

> See [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md).
```

### Running

Before importing commits you have to load them in the database:
```sh
NODE_ENV=import node scripts/import/loadCommits.js
```

Then import snapshots from commits:

```sh
NODE_ENV=import node scripts/import/index.js
```
### Important notes

> - Your source repository will be read as is, so checkout the proper branch of commit before running the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your source repository will be read as is, so make sure to check out the proper branch before running the script.
```

> - If you kill the script during its run, your source repository will probably be on a commit in the middle of the history, you need to manually checkout to the proper wanted commit of branche before re-running it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you kill the script during its run, your source repository will probably be on a commit in the middle of the history. You will need to manually check out to the proper wanted commit of branch before re-running it.
```

> - If you kill the script during its run, your source repository will probably be on a commit in the middle of the history, you need to manually checkout to the proper wanted commit of branche before re-running it.

Reviewer: Not clear: do you mean I should go back to the original branch I started the import process on, or that I should go back to the commit where the script stopped? If I go back to the original branch, I worry that my imports will contain duplicates.

Author: Sorry it is not relevant anymore

> ### Currently handled cases
> 
> Currently, the script will:
> 
> - Ignore commits which are not a document snapshot (like renaming or documentation commits)
> - Rename document types according to declared rules. See [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md)
> - Rename services according to declared rules. See [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edge cases

The script will:

- Ignore commits which are not a document snapshot (like renaming or documentation commits).
- Rename document types according to declared rules. See the [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md).
- Rename services according to declared rules. See the [renamer module documentation](../renamer/README.md).
```
